So we've said that instead of using templates to describe your user interface,
React is going to use elements.
What do we mean when we say that?
So I've got a really basic file here,
I've got React, I have ReactDOM.
For now, don't worry about where this file comes from or trying to do this on your own.
We're just going to discuss
a few core concepts before we talk about how to make all of this happen.
The important thing to happen is that the browser on the left
is going to reflect whatever I type in the editor on
the right so let's create a new React element using React.CreateElement.
This is a top level API call that React uses to create these elements.
It looks kind of similar to the documents
create element method, but it's a little bit different.
The first argument is the tag name of the element that we want to use.
So we'll just create a div.
The second argument we'll talk about in just a little bit,
and the third argument is going to be some text that we'll put inside the div.
So, how do we actually get this element into the page?
That's where ReactDom comes into play.
ReactDOM is just one way to use the React library.
In React, the process of deciding what to
render is completely decoupled from actually rendering it.
The decoupling makes it possible to render stuff on
the server on native devices and even in VR environments.
In this lesson, we use ReactDom because we're working in the browser.
So we'll say, ReactDOM.render my element into the dom node,
in this case, we will use the root element,
that's already on the page,
so let's save this.
And now, we can see in the browser we have
the "hello world" message displayed in this div.
So, you might look at this line and think what is this element?
Let's take a look in the console.
So we'll just open up Chrome's inspector here,
and we see that really this is
just a plain JavaScript object with a bunch of different properties.
It has key, props type,
you recognize this one,
this was the string that we gave it for the type of the element,
and then it has a bunch of private properties down here.